# Honeysuckle-Robot
A robot prototype capable of autonomously treating invasive honeysuckle bushes with herbicide as part of a multi-year summer research project.

This project was the first iteration of a multi-year research project with the intention to explore solutions in autonomously treating honeysuckle bushes
on the Principia College campus. The desired features we determined we would start progress towards were: recognize honeysuckle bush, treat bushes with a movable arm equipped with a small saw and pump for creating a small opening in the bark of the bush and dispensing herbicide, navigate a forest terrain, map areas scouted and locations of bushes treated, communicate wirelessly with a home station, and return to a charging station autonomously. 
While full automation is the end goal, we also worked on establishing manual control through a handheld controller.

In the span of 4 weeks, I worked primarily on researching and developing methods of image recognition using a webcam and the Nvidia Jetson SoC. I created a Python script for training new models for image recognition. As more research is conducted, the model can be easily retrained with this script for better performance. Additionally, I worked on creating a script for the live execution of this model using the webcam. While this script was not finished, it would ultimately allow for 2 forms of live evaluation of the pretrained model while the robot is out searching for honeysuckle; one for finding potential honeysuckle within the camera frame for the robot to approach, and one for confirmation of honeysuckle once the bush has been approached. Finally, I worked on acheiving manual drive control via the Jetson and an Arduino nano to output PWM signals which can be seen in the main.py file. My peer, Michael, is a co-author of main.py, and he worked on manual control of the robotic arm.